


Log rotation, 
Tools how to parse the logs 

nie loguje że coś się wydarzyło pozytywnie

temat dużu, wiec kilka high-level subjektywne porady

Logging and monitoring are two separate topics. 
Of course there is some level of flexibility
# Be specific in what you log

The content of log files needs to consider the following attributes:
* Who is performing the action
* What has failed or succeeded
* When is the action occurring
* Why this has failed or succeeded
* How you can deal with the issue

Source: ["Building Microservices with Go" by Nic Jackson](https://www.oreilly.com/library/view/building-microservices-with/9781786468666/)

# Avoid wordy log content.
Make the log message as short as possible, to understand the problem. Do not put inside log descriptions.
Do not log stack trace when it is not needed.

# Log only required fields 
Log only information that is helpful in identifying the cause of critical problems with the application.
* Log specific properties, as opposed to the full object. At the beginning it can look like a good idea to log full object.
  It looks be future ready. In fact, it can be harmful. Logs are bigger that it should be, so it increases infrastucture load and cost. It can also result in sensitive data leak. Even if now object doesn't include sensitive data, it can be added in the future.

# Do not log successful operations.

The log line should be actionable. Having log about API call or DB read/write record doesn't bring much value. Unfortunatelly it put bigger load on system and decrese readibility.

# Use the correct log level.
Use a correct log levels in the application 

Logging levels
* `TRACE`: Use this level for tracing the code, such as being able to see when execution flow enters and exits specific methods.
* `DEBUG`: This level records diagnostic details that can be helpful during debugging. It can be used to make note of when certain aspects of the logic are completed successfully. It can also provide details such as executed queries and session information, which can be used in determining the cause of an issue.
* `INFO`: This level is for logging details about normal operations during the execution of logic. It is common for INFO to be a default log level. It is for useful information that you want to have but typically won't spend much time examining under normal circumstances.
* `WARN`: When you have a situation in which incorrect behavior takes place, but the application can continue, it can be logged at the Warn level.
* `ERROR`: Use this level for exceptions and problems that caused an operation to fail.
* `FATAL`: This level is reserved for the most severe errors, such as those that may cause the shutdown of the system or data corruption. 
  
Reference:  [Software Architect's Handbook by Joseph Ingeno](https://www.amazon.com/Software-Architects-Handbook-implementing-architecture-ebook/dp/B07B3R2ZCX)

Example: If a client tries to access a resource that doesn’t exist or doesn’t have permissions to access it, do not use warning, error nor fatal.


# Use identifiers 
Use Identifiers (like flow-id, batch or execution id) are logged to allow the correlation of service activities initiated by a specific call. If an identifier exists it must be sent to invoked components.
If you receive traffic, you should receive it from you client. 
For Http requests you can get it from the header `X-Flow-ID`.  
If you consume the event/message, you should receive it as well.

When you start the execution, for example start scheduler, just generate it.

It makes troubleshooting much easier. It also helps to corelate logical flow of events accross many systems. 

Reference: [Zalando Api Guidelines](https://opensource.zalando.com/restful-api-guidelines/#233)

# Do not log sensitive data.
Sensitive data is for example passwords, access tokens, personal information, etc if this rule is not followed it poses a security risk.

Ways how to deal with this problem:
* use masking - for example put some dummy values instead real one, replace number of credit card with `X`. 
  One point to consider when using pattern matching, is that string matching or regex usage can bring a performance penalty if used too often, with large strings or complex patterns.
* use internal IDs - it is common for individal microservice to use internal IDs (this is true for services with their own data storage). Instead credit card number, you may log its internal id.
* Pseudonymisation - in some situations, when and neither masking, nor internal IDs can be made to works, you may consider using dedicated microservices to use `pseudonymisation`.
  Pseudonymization allows you to replace identifiers with automatically generated values that map to the same value for the same original ID within the same so-called bounded context. It is meant to be used when data needs to be localized for a specific (set of) microservice(s) and/or its connection to the original ID needs to be deletable to meet GDPR’s right to be forgotten (RTBF) requirements.

# Log exceptions if they are really helpful to troubleshoot the problem. 

# Zero error policy. 
I like the `zero error policy`. It means that your system should not 
If there is error or exception in the logs, it should be immediately (during working hours) inspected why it happened and eliminated. 




